And this lesson, we're going to cover the visibility time out and then long polling, so the visibility
timeout is the amount of time in seconds that a message is invisible to consumers while it's being processed.
So it works like this.
You remember the delay.
You so a producer can put a message into the queue and it can be delayed for a period of time.
And that means it's not visible in any way.
So nobody is processing it.
No consumer is processing that message.
Once that expires, the message becomes visible and a consumer can then process that message.
Now the consumer needs some time to process the message before it deletes it from a cue.
So the logic is you need to make sure your consumer successfully processes the message and then deletes
it from the cue.
Because in some instances, for some reason, the consumer will fail to process the message.
So you still want the message to be in the queue so that another consumer can process it.
So after the visibility time out, the message becomes available again.
So just to recap that a consumer takes a message from a queue and starts processing it for a period
of time.
That message is not visible, but it's still in the queue.
And this is a safety measure so that if a failure occurs in processing it, let's say this instance
becomes unavailable for some reason, then the message becomes available again and another consumer
can process it.
So the visibility time out is the amount of time a message is invisible after a reader or consumer picks
it up and provided the job is processed before the visibility time expires, the message will then be
deleted from the queue.
If the job's not processed within that visibility time out, then the message becomes visible and another
reader can then process it instead.
Now this can result in the same message being delivered twice.
So you've got to be careful of how you set up your applications to make sure they're able to process
the message within the visibility time out and then delete the message before any other consumers go
and pick it up again.
The default is 30 seconds and you can increase it if your task takes longer than 30 seconds, up to
a maximum of 12 hours.
And you can configure this at the queue level.
So in the console here, let's just go to configure queue and we can see the default visibility timeout
is here.
So you can change that anything up to 12 hours.
The next concept I want to talk about is long polling and short polling.
This is all about how your consumer checks her messages and how those messages are then returned to
the consumer.
So with short polling, the consumer checks the queue and eight of us will query a subset of service.
So to make things fast, they don't query every server that is associated with your queue.
And that means that in some cases, especially with queues, with fewer messages, you might get a response.
That's a failure.
So it doesn't find any messages.
If you then rerun the Receive Message API, it should then find a message.
Now, long polling is different with long polling the.
Connection is made to rescue us and then the consumer will actually wait for the wait time, seconds,
and then eventually will receive a positive response.
Now, the key thing about this is it means fewer API calls and you pay for API calls to ask us so it
can reduce cost.
So it means that your consumer will then just wait for messages to appear in the queue and then process
them rather than disconnecting and then reconnecting multiple times.
Now, I want to show you how this works at the command line.
So on the left there, what I'm going to do is I'm just going to run it obscures list cuz.
So I can get this cute name and a copy, that's my clipboard, and then I'm going to run it obscures
send message that I'm going to put q your URL paste in the URL I copied and then message body and let's
put this as short polling.
So the next thing we need to do is run the Receive Message API.
So I'm going to look up the command line options.
So I'm going to type Adewusi excuse, receive message help.
And let's see what the options are we need, so we're going to need the wait time seconds and we're
going to need the kuduro.
So let's go back up.
I'm going to type in.
Q Bashira and then we've got wait time, seconds, which will be zero because it's short polling.
So I want to do short polling first.
Now, by the way, before I got started with this lab, I actually cleared out the two messages we sent
in the last lab.
So if you haven't done that, go back into your queue, just choose view, delete messages, start polling
and then delete the messages so you should have an empty queue.
So we have an empty queue.
I'm going to paste in that URL and we've got to wait time.
Azera Seconds.
So this is short polling.
So let's hit enter and you can see it finished.
So it checked and then immediately disconnected.
So what I'm going to do now is I'm going to set a wait time, seconds of ten and let's see what happens.
So now it's actually waiting and we can send this message and then it returns the message.
So that's the difference between long polling and short polling.
And in this case, I'm setting it at the API level.
But again, you can go into your queue, choose, configure, queue and specify the received message,
wait time.
So excuse long polling is a way to retrieve messages from excuse.
And we've just seen there that was short polling.
A response is immediate.
Even if the queue is empty or even if excuse doesn't return a queue because it only queries a subset
of the servers.
Long polling can lower costs by waiting to retrieve a message, and that means that all the servers
actually get queried and any messages that are placed in the queue while the consumer is connected and
waiting will then be processed.
And that saves you money by lowering the amount of API calls you make so you can enable this at the
queue level or at the API level using wait times, seconds and long polling is in effect when the receive
message wait time is a value greater than zero and up to 20 seconds.
So that's it for the visibility time out and long polling.
And in the next lesson, we're going to have a quick look at some important API calls.